docs/utility-guides/NHSNumberTools.md, before:

# Utility Guide: NHS Number Tools

The NHS Number Tools utility provided by this blueprint allows for the easy management of NHS numbers, and provides
common functionality that may apply to many services in relation to NHS Number management.

## Table of Contents

- [Utility Guide: NHS Number Tools](#utility-guide-nhs-number-tools)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Using the NHS Number Tools class](#using-the-nhs-number-tools-class)
  - [`spaced_nhs_number()`: Return Spaced NHS Number](#spaced_nhs_number-return-spaced-nhs-number)
    - [Required Arguments](#required-arguments)
    - [Returns](#returns)

## Using the NHS Number Tools class

You can initialise the NHS Number Tools class by using the following code in your test file:

    from utils.nhs_number_tools import NHSNumberTools

## `spaced_nhs_number()`: Return Spaced NHS Number

The `spaced_nhs_number()` method is designed to take the provided NHS number and return it in a formatted
string of the format `nnn nnn nnnn`.  It's a static method so can be used in the following way:

    # Return formatted NHS number
    spaced_nhs_number = NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number("1234567890")

### Required Arguments

The following are required for `NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number()`:

| Argument   | Format         | Description               |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| nhs_number | `str` or `int` | The NHS number to format. |

### Returns

A `str` with the provided NHS number in `nnn nnn nnnn` format. For example, `NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number(1234567890)` would return `123 456 7890`.

Commit message:

As per Jira Ticket, https://nhsd-jira.digital.nhs.uk/browse/BCSS-20629 - BCSS – Playwright - NHS Number Tools Markdown Improvements - Utility Guide - NHSNumberTools.md is updated & also Doc String is updated for nhs_number_tools.py

docs/utility-guides/NHSNumberTools.md, after:

# Utility Guide: NHS Number Tools

The NHS Number Tools utility provided by this blueprint allows for the easy management of NHS numbers, and provides
common functionality that may apply to many services in relation to NHS Number management.

## Table of Contents

- [Utility Guide: NHS Number Tools](#utility-guide-nhs-number-tools)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Using the NHS Number Tools class](#using-the-nhs-number-tools-class)
  - [`_nhs_number_checks()`: If the input is not numeric or not 10 digits, it raises a NHSNumberToolsException()](#_nhs_number_checks-if-the-input-is-not-numeric-or-not-10-digits-it-raises-a-nhsnumbertoolsexception)
    - [Required Arguments](#required-arguments)
    - [Raises](#raises)
  - [`spaced_nhs_number()`: Return Spaced NHS Number](#spaced_nhs_number-return-spaced-nhs-number)
    - [Required Arguments](#required-arguments-1)
    - [Returns](#returns)

## Using the NHS Number Tools class

You can initialise the NHS Number Tools class by using the following code in your test file:

    from utils.nhs_number_tools import NHSNumberTools

## `_nhs_number_checks()`: If the input is not numeric or not 10 digits, it raises a NHSNumberToolsException()

The `_nhs_number_checks()` method does basic checks on NHS number values provided and raises an exception if the number is not valid:

    # Args nhs_number (str): The NHS number to check
    if not nhs_number.isnumeric():
            raise NHSNumberToolsException(
                "The NHS number provided ({}) is not numeric.".format(nhs_number)
            )
        if len(nhs_number) != 10:
            raise NHSNumberToolsException(
                "The NHS number provided ({}) is not 10 digits.".format(nhs_number)
            )

### Required Arguments

The following are required for `_nhs_number_checks()`:

| Argument   | Format         | Description               |
| -----------| -------------- | ------------------------- |
| nhs_number | `str`          | The NHS number to check   |

### Raises

NHSNumberToolsException: If the NHS number is not numeric or not 10 digits long.

## `spaced_nhs_number()`: Return Spaced NHS Number

The `spaced_nhs_number()` method is designed to take the provided NHS number and return it in a formatted
string of the format `nnn nnn nnnn`.  It's a static method so can be used in the following way:

    # Return formatted NHS number
    spaced_nhs_number = NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number("1234567890")

### Required Arguments

The following are required for `NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number()`:

| Argument   | Format         | Description               |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| nhs_number | `str` or `int` | The NHS number to format. |

### Returns

A `str` with the provided NHS number in `nnn nnn nnnn` format. For example, `NHSNumberTools.spaced_nhs_number(1234567890)` would return `123 456 7890`.
