utils/oracle/TEMP_subject_selection_query_builder.md, before:

# SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder

## Overview

This module provides the `SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder` class, which is responsible for dynamically building SQL queries to select screening subjects from an Oracle database based on a wide variety of criteria. It is designed to support complex, flexible subject selection logic for NHS Bowel Cancer Screening System (BCSS) workflows.

The builder supports criteria such as NHS number, subject age, hub code, screening centre code, GP practice linkage, screening status, and many more, including date-based and status-based filters. It also handles special cases such as "unchanged" values and supports modifiers like "NOT:" for negation.

## How to Use

**Instantiate the Builder:**

```python
builder = SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder()
```

**Call `build_subject_selection_query`:**

```python
query, bind_vars = builder.build_subject_selection_query(
    criteria,  # Dict[str, str] of selection criteria
    user,      # User object
    subject,   # Subject object (can be None)
    subjects_to_retrieve=10  # Optional: limit number of rows
)
```

1. **Execute the Query:**
   Use the returned `query` string and `bind_vars` dictionary with your database connection.

## Class: `SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder`

### Constructor

#### `__init__(self)`

Initializes internal lists for SQL clauses, bind variables, and other state needed for query construction.

---

### Main API

#### `build_subject_selection_query(self, criteria, user, subject, subjects_to_retrieve=None) -> tuple[str, dict]`

Builds the full SQL query string and bind variables dictionary based on the provided criteria, user, and subject. Handles the orchestration of clause building and applies row limits.

---

### Clause Builders

#### `_build_select_clause(self)`

Appends the SELECT clause with all required columns to the query.

#### `_build_main_from_clause(self)`

Appends the FROM clause, joining the main subject and contact tables.

#### `_start_where_clause(self)`

Appends the initial WHERE clause (`WHERE 1=1`) to simplify further AND conditions.

#### `_end_where_clause(self, subject_count: int)`

Appends a row limit clause (`FETCH FIRST {subject_count} ROWS ONLY`) to the query.

---

### Criteria Handling

#### `_add_variable_selection_criteria(self, criteria, user, subject)`

Iterates through each criterion, determines its type, and dispatches to the appropriate handler method. Handles "NOT:" modifiers, "unchanged" values, and validates the use of each criterion.

#### `_get_criteria_has_not_comparator(self, original_criteria_value: str) -> bool`

Returns `True` if the value starts with "NOT:", indicating negation.

#### `_get_criteria_value(self, original_criteria_value: str) -> str`

Strips "NOT:" if present, returning the actual value.

#### `_get_criteria_comparator(self) -> str`

Returns the SQL comparator (`=` or `!=`) based on the presence of the "NOT:" modifier.

#### `_force_not_modifier_is_invalid_for_criteria_value(self)`

Raises an error if "NOT:" is used with a criterion that does not support it.

#### `_check_if_more_than_one_criteria_value_is_valid_for_criteria_key(self)`

Validates that only one value is provided for criteria keys that do not allow multiple values.

#### `_check_if_not_modifier_is_valid_for_criteria_key(self)`

Validates that the "NOT:" modifier is allowed for the current criteria key.

---

### Criteria-Specific Methods

#### `_add_criteria_nhs_number(self)`

Adds a filter for NHS number.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_age(self)`

Adds a filter for subject age, supporting both year/day and year-only formats.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_hub_code(self, user)`

Adds a filter for the subject's hub code, handling user-organisation lookups and direct codes.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_screening_centre_code(self, user)`

Adds a filter for the subject's screening centre code, handling user-organisation lookups and direct codes.

#### `_add_criteria_has_gp_practice(self)`

Adds a filter for whether the subject has a GP practice, supporting active, inactive, and no GP.

#### `_add_criteria_has_gp_practice_linked_to_sc(self)`

Adds a filter for subjects whose GP practice is linked to a specific screening centre.

#### `_add_criteria_screening_status(self, subject)`

Adds a filter for the subject's screening status, supporting "unchanged" and specific status values.

#### `_add_criteria_previous_screening_status(self)`

Adds a filter for the subject's previous screening status.

#### `_add_criteria_screening_status_reason(self, subject)`

Adds a filter for the reason for screening status change.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field(self, subject, pathway, date_type)`

Adds a date-based filter, supporting a wide range of date logic, including special cases and relative dates.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field_special_cases(self, value, subject, pathway, date_type, date_column_name)`

Handles special date criteria such as "last birthday", "calculated due date", "unchanged", and various event-based offsets.

---

### SQL Helper Methods

#### `_get_date_field_column_name(self, pathway, date_type) -> str`

Maps pathway and date type to the correct Oracle column name.

#### `_add_join_to_latest_episode(self)`

Adds a join to the latest episode for the subject.

#### `_add_join_to_genetic_condition_diagnosis(self)`

Adds a join to the genetic condition diagnosis table.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit dataset.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset_tumor(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit tumor dataset.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset_treatment(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit treatment dataset.

#### `_add_check_comparing_one_date_with_another(self, column_to_check, comparator, date_to_check_against, allow_nulls)`

Adds a date comparison clause to the query.

#### `_add_days_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_days) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding days to a date.

#### `_add_months_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_months) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding months to a date.

#### `_add_years_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_years) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding years to a date.

#### `_add_months_or_years_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, years, number_to_add_or_subtract) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding months or years to a date.

#### `_subtract_days_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_days) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting days from a date.

#### `_subtract_months_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_months) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting months from a date.

#### `_subtract_years_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_years) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting years from a date.

#### `_oracle_to_date_method(self, date, format) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL TO_DATE expression for the given date and format.

#### `_add_check_date_is_a_period_ago_or_later(self, date_column_name, value)`

Adds a clause for date comparisons like "3 years ago", "2 months later", etc.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field_special_cases(...)`

Handles complex date-based criteria using enums and special logic.

#### `_add_check_comparing_date_with_earliest_or_latest_event_date(...)`

Adds a clause comparing a date field to the earliest or latest event date, offset by a period.

#### `_add_check_column_is_null_or_not(self, column_name, is_null)`

Adds a clause checking if a column is (not) null.

#### `_get_date_field_existing_value(self, subject, pathway, date_type) -> Optional[date]`

Returns the existing value for a date field from the subject, if available.

#### `_get_x_years_ago/later`, `_get_x_months_ago/later`, `_get_x_days_ago/later`

Helper methods for relative date calculations.

#### `_nvl_date(self, column_name) -> str`

Returns an Oracle NVL expression for a date column.

#### `_is_valid_date(self, value, date_format="%Y-%m-%d") -> bool`

Checks if a string is a valid date in the given format.

#### `single_quoted(value: str) -> str`

Returns the value wrapped in single quotes for SQL.

#### `invalid_use_of_unchanged_exception(criteria_key_name: str, reason: str)`

Returns a `SelectionBuilderException` for invalid use of "unchanged".

---

## ToDo

### Selenium Copy

- [ ] Add additional match case in `_add_variable_selection_criteria`. This is almost a direct copy of `addVariableSelectionCriteria` in the Selenium framework.
- [ ] Add any additional methods that are required by this utility: `_add_criteria_.....`.
- [ ] Create any new classes needed in the classes folder

### General

- [ ] Add more robust type checking and error handling for all user inputs.
- [ ] Refactor repeated logic for criteria handling into reusable helper methods.
- [ ] Document all enums and supporting classes used by the builder.
- [ ] Add logging for all major decision points in query construction.
- [ ] Review and update doc strings for clarity and completeness.

Commit message:

Added more cases to the util and methods to go along with this

utils/oracle/TEMP_subject_selection_query_builder.md, after:

# SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder

## Overview

This module provides the `SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder` class, which is responsible for dynamically building SQL queries to select screening subjects from an Oracle database based on a wide variety of criteria. It is designed to support complex, flexible subject selection logic for NHS Bowel Cancer Screening System (BCSS) workflows.

The builder supports criteria such as NHS number, subject age, hub code, screening centre code, GP practice linkage, screening status, and many more, including date-based and status-based filters. It also handles special cases such as "unchanged" values and supports modifiers like "NOT:" for negation.

## How to Use

**Instantiate the Builder:**

```python
builder = SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder()
```

**Call `build_subject_selection_query`:**

```python
query, bind_vars = builder.build_subject_selection_query(
    criteria,  # Dict[str, str] of selection criteria
    user,      # User object
    subject,   # Subject object (can be None)
    subjects_to_retrieve=10  # Optional: limit number of rows
)
```

1. **Execute the Query:**
   Use the returned `query` string and `bind_vars` dictionary with your database connection.

## Class: `SubjectSelectionQueryBuilder`

### Constructor

#### `__init__(self)`

Initializes internal lists for SQL clauses, bind variables, and other state needed for query construction.

---

### Main API

#### `build_subject_selection_query(self, criteria, user, subject, subjects_to_retrieve=None) -> tuple[str, dict]`

Builds the full SQL query string and bind variables dictionary based on the provided criteria, user, and subject. Handles the orchestration of clause building and applies row limits.

---

### Clause Builders

#### `_build_select_clause(self)`

Appends the SELECT clause with all required columns to the query.

#### `_build_main_from_clause(self)`

Appends the FROM clause, joining the main subject and contact tables.

#### `_start_where_clause(self)`

Appends the initial WHERE clause (`WHERE 1=1`) to simplify further AND conditions.

#### `_end_where_clause(self, subject_count: int)`

Appends a row limit clause (`FETCH FIRST {subject_count} ROWS ONLY`) to the query.

---

### Criteria Handling

#### `_add_variable_selection_criteria(self, criteria, user, subject)`

Iterates through each criterion, determines its type, and dispatches to the appropriate handler method. Handles "NOT:" modifiers, "unchanged" values, and validates the use of each criterion.

#### `_get_criteria_has_not_comparator(self, original_criteria_value: str) -> bool`

Returns `True` if the value starts with "NOT:", indicating negation.

#### `_get_criteria_value(self, original_criteria_value: str) -> str`

Strips "NOT:" if present, returning the actual value.

#### `_get_criteria_comparator(self) -> str`

Returns the SQL comparator (`=` or `!=`) based on the presence of the "NOT:" modifier.

#### `_force_not_modifier_is_invalid_for_criteria_value(self)`

Raises an error if "NOT:" is used with a criterion that does not support it.

#### `_check_if_more_than_one_criteria_value_is_valid_for_criteria_key(self)`

Validates that only one value is provided for criteria keys that do not allow multiple values.

#### `_check_if_not_modifier_is_valid_for_criteria_key(self)`

Validates that the "NOT:" modifier is allowed for the current criteria key.

---

### Criteria-Specific Methods

#### `_add_criteria_nhs_number(self)`

Adds a filter for NHS number.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_age(self)`

Adds a filter for subject age, supporting both year/day and year-only formats.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_hub_code(self, user)`

Adds a filter for the subject's hub code, handling user-organisation lookups and direct codes.

#### `_add_criteria_subject_screening_centre_code(self, user)`

Adds a filter for the subject's screening centre code, handling user-organisation lookups and direct codes.

#### `_add_criteria_has_gp_practice(self)`

Adds a filter for whether the subject has a GP practice, supporting active, inactive, and no GP.

#### `_add_criteria_has_gp_practice_linked_to_sc(self)`

Adds a filter for subjects whose GP practice is linked to a specific screening centre.

#### `_add_criteria_screening_status(self, subject)`

Adds a filter for the subject's screening status, supporting "unchanged" and specific status values.

#### `_add_criteria_previous_screening_status(self)`

Adds a filter for the subject's previous screening status.

#### `_add_criteria_screening_status_reason(self, subject)`

Adds a filter for the reason for screening status change.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field(self, subject, pathway, date_type)`

Adds a date-based filter, supporting a wide range of date logic, including special cases and relative dates.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field_special_cases(self, value, subject, pathway, date_type, date_column_name)`

Handles special date criteria such as "last birthday", "calculated due date", "unchanged", and various event-based offsets.

---

### SQL Helper Methods

#### `_get_date_field_column_name(self, pathway, date_type) -> str`

Maps pathway and date type to the correct Oracle column name.

#### `_add_join_to_latest_episode(self)`

Adds a join to the latest episode for the subject.

#### `_add_join_to_genetic_condition_diagnosis(self)`

Adds a join to the genetic condition diagnosis table.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit dataset.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset_tumor(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit tumor dataset.

#### `_add_join_to_cancer_audit_dataset_treatment(self)`

Adds a join to the cancer audit treatment dataset.

#### `_add_check_comparing_one_date_with_another(self, column_to_check, comparator, date_to_check_against, allow_nulls)`

Adds a date comparison clause to the query.

#### `_add_days_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_days) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding days to a date.

#### `_add_months_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_months) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding months to a date.

#### `_add_years_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_years) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding years to a date.

#### `_add_months_or_years_to_oracle_date(self, column_name, years, number_to_add_or_subtract) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for adding months or years to a date.

#### `_subtract_days_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_days) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting days from a date.

#### `_subtract_months_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_months) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting months from a date.

#### `_subtract_years_from_oracle_date(self, column_name, number_of_years) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL expression for subtracting years from a date.

#### `_oracle_to_date_method(self, date, format) -> str`

Returns an Oracle SQL TO_DATE expression for the given date and format.

#### `_add_check_date_is_a_period_ago_or_later(self, date_column_name, value)`

Adds a clause for date comparisons like "3 years ago", "2 months later", etc.

#### `_add_criteria_date_field_special_cases(...)`

Handles complex date-based criteria using enums and special logic.

#### `_add_check_comparing_date_with_earliest_or_latest_event_date(...)`

Adds a clause comparing a date field to the earliest or latest event date, offset by a period.

#### `_add_check_column_is_null_or_not(self, column_name, is_null)`

Adds a clause checking if a column is (not) null.

#### `_get_date_field_existing_value(self, subject, pathway, date_type) -> Optional[date]`

Returns the existing value for a date field from the subject, if available.

#### `_get_x_years_ago/later`, `_get_x_months_ago/later`, `_get_x_days_ago/later`

Helper methods for relative date calculations.

#### `_nvl_date(self, column_name) -> str`

Returns an Oracle NVL expression for a date column.

#### `_is_valid_date(self, value, date_format="%Y-%m-%d") -> bool`

Checks if a string is a valid date in the given format.

#### `single_quoted(value: str) -> str`

Returns the value wrapped in single quotes for SQL.

#### `invalid_use_of_unchanged_exception(criteria_key_name: str, reason: str)`

Returns a `SelectionBuilderException` for invalid use of "unchanged".

---

## ToDo

### Selenium Copy

- [ ] Add additional match case in `_add_variable_selection_criteria`. This is almost a direct copy of `addVariableSelectionCriteria` in the Selenium framework.
- [ ] Add any additional methods that are required by this utility: `_add_criteria_.....`.
- [ ] Create any new classes needed in the classes folder.

### General

- [ ] Add more robust type checking and error handling for all user inputs.
- [ ] Refactor repeated logic for criteria handling into reusable helper methods.
- [ ] Document all enums and supporting classes used by the builder.
- [ ] Add logging for all major decision points in query construction.
- [ ] Review and update doc strings for clarity and completeness.
- [ ] Double check `_add_criteria_date_field` against `addCriteriaDateField` to see if functionality ported over correctly. This included looking at any methods referenced in this method.
